Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.A programming language is a formal language that specifies a set of instructions that can be used to produce various
kinds of output. Programming languages generally consist of instructions for a computer.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Components of JDK are: Javac compiler, Java loader, JVM, Debugger, Java doc etc
Javac compiler: It creates the bytecodes
JVM: A Java virtual machine (JVM) is an abstract computing machine that enables a computer to run a Java program.
Java loader: The Java Classloader is a part of the Java Runtime Environment that dynamically loads Java classes into
the Java Virtual Machine.
Debugger: It helps to detect and corrects the error of computer programs.

What is IDE?
IDE stands for "Integrated Development Environment" which is a software application that enables users to more easily
write and debug java program.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition, Eclipse, NetBeans, BlueJ, jEdit etc.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Java's life cycle starts with writing source code in a note pad or sublime or eclipse. Then we call the compiler java
to produce byte codes. Java compiler creates class file. Once the source code goes through compiler it produces
bytecodes. Then the java loader JVM interprets that in machine language and sends it to the operation system and it
gives output.

what is class?
A class is a basic building block of java.

What is object?
Object is an instance of a class where the object can be a combination of variables, functions, and data structures.

What is the entry point of an application?
Entry point of an application identifies a resource that is an access point to that application.  Without main method
we cannot execute code in java.

Why main is static?
Main method gives JVM the instruction to run any static method and variable without creating a new object. That is why
it is static.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
The Object class, which is stored in the java.lang package, is the ultimate superclass of all Java classes.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables. Classpath is an
environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path, of classes.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
In interface, we can only declare methods which are abstract but in abstract class, method can be abstract
and non-abstract.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
No. Interface has to be implemented by a concrete class and abstract class has to be extended by concrete class.

what is Access Specifier?
Access specifiers are used to control the visibility of members like classes, variables and methods. There are three
access specifiers: public, private and protected.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
OOP defines Object Oriented Programming. Code reuse and recycling (inheritance), security (encapsulation), easy design
(abstraction), flexibility (polymorphism) and easy maintenance.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A package is a namespace that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces. java.lang package is imported by
default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
ava API is 'Application Programming Interface'. It has classes, interfaces with methods, fields and constructions.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
No. It does with interface and interface doesn't initiate object.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name, if their argument
lists are different. It happens in compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
An exception is a problem that arises during the execution of a program. When an error occurs within a method, the
method creates an object and hands it off to the runtime system. The object is called an exception object and contains
information about the error including its type and the state of the program when the error occured.
Creating an exception object and handling it to the runtime system is called throwing an exception.
The exceptions are handled using try and catch method.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Static variable belongs to the class and non static variable belongs to the object.
A static method belongs to the class rather than object of a class. A static method invoked without the need for
creating an instance of a class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
When we declare a variable final, we can not modify it.
A final method can not be overridden.

What is final, finally and finalize?
Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable. Final class can't be inherited, final method can't
be overridden and final variable value can't be changed. Final is a keyword.
Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not. Finally is a block.
Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected. Finalize is a method.

What is a constructor ?
A constructor in Java is a block of code similar to a method that's called when an instance of an object is created.
The purpose of a constructor is to initialize the object of a class while the purpose of a method is to perform a task
by executing java code. A constructor only has "public" in there, not "void" as it in a method and has the same name as
class.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Yes.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
THIS is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object.
It can be used to refer instance variable of current class
It can be used to invoke or initiate current class constructor
It can be passed as an argument in the method call
It can be passed as argument in the constructor call
It can be used to return the current class instance

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
super is a keyword. It is used inside a sub-class method definition to call a method defined in the super class.

What is JVM stand for ?
Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
No. It depends on operating system of computer.

What version of java are you using?
9.0.4+11

What is JAR stand for ?
Java ARchive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Java Development Kit is the core component of Java Environment and provides all the tools, executables and binaries
required to compile, debug and execute a Java Program.
JVM is the heart of java programming language. When we run a program, JVM is responsible to converting Byte code to the
machine specific code.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
JVM is the heart of java programming language. When we run a program, JVM is responsible to converting Byte code to the
machine specific code.
RE is the implementation of JVM, it provides platform to execute java programs. JRE consists of JVM and java binaries
and other classes to execute any program successfully.

What is compile time and run time?
The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program. This compilation process
is referred to as compile time.
Runtime is when a program is running (or being executable). That is, when you start a program running in a computer, it
is runtime for that program.

What is heap?
The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated. Objects resides
here.

How java manage it's memory?
Java objects reside in an area called the heap. ... During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are
cleared, thus making space for new objects. Note that the JVM uses more memory than just the heap.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?

What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Just In Time compiler
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Declaring variables take place in stack and objects take place in heap.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Overloading is static binding and Overriding is dynamic binding.









